this is a recipe that I may have done
before that you may have seen before
but I'd like you to see it again because
it's such a winner it's so easy and so
delicious and no one can ever believe
that something so good could be so easy
well this is called alpine eggs it came
originally from mrs. Beeton and I think
she called it that because she used
Swiss cheese but today I'm using some
grated cheddar cheese and I've got here
a very well buttered Gratton dish or
shallow baking dish and I'm going to put
half the cheese in the baking dish first
of all and spread it out rather like a a
wall-to-wall carpet and then I'm going
to break on top of that six nice fresh
eggs and the reason I say nice fresh
eggs is because if you're using stale
eggs and the yolks break and the whole
thing isn't quite as nice so do what I
do look at the date stamps very
carefully when you're buying eggs and I
remind you of another little trick that
I probably told you about the last time
in the last series and that was to find
out what day your supermarket has
deliveries these are really fresh
because I would manage to get these from
a farm especially for the program there
we are
six fresh eggs now just sprinkle a
little salt on to the eggs and some
freshly milled pepper and then the next
thing you do is just cover them with the
rest of the cheese so just sprinkle that
on gently so that they don't break
you might need to just do a bit of
patchwork around the edges to make sure
you've got the cheese thoroughly
distributed and as usual reincorporating
escaped bits then you just put a few
flecks of butter on and you have the
oven preheated to gas mark for that 350
degrees Fahrenheit and you put it on the
center shelf and it'll take only 15
minutes to cook 15 minutes if you like
your eggs nice and soft or you could
give it 20 if you like them a little bit
firmer either way that's all it takes
and I've got some Alpine eggs in the
oven waiting to come out now so we'll
just have a look at the finished version
what happens is the cheese comes up
beautifully puffy at the top there and
then what I like to do is serve it
sprinkled with some fresh chopped chives
snipped chives if you haven't got chives
you can use parsley or you can use very
finely chopped spring onions but that
does add a nice bit of flavor and one
thing I hadn't mentioned is that you can
make alpine eggs individually 2 ounces
of cheese and one egg per person in
little ramekin dishes that would make a
good first course at a dinner party or a
very good quick meal for one person
anyway that's alpine eggs
you